## Redux Primer

### February 4, 2017

***Reducers***
Def.  A function that returns a piece of the application's state.

Because our application can have many different pieces of state,
we can have many different reducers.

    Ex) Book App => two pieces in application state:
        1.  List of books
        2.  Currently selected book

        We could have two reducers.  One for producing the list of books,
        the other for producing the currently selected book.

Reducers produce the value of our state.
    
    Ex) Application State - Generated by Reducers:
        {
            books: [ {title:'Harry Potter'}, {title:'JavaScript'} ],
            activeBook : {title:'JavaScript: The Good Parts'}
        } 

Here, we have the Books reducer and the ActiveBook reducer.

Now, let's write a function that produces the value of our state.  

    For the Books reducer, it should return an array of objects, with each object being the title of the book.  And that array should be assigned to the key 'books' of the application state.

***combineReducers()***
This function defines how we create our application state:

        const rootReducer = combineReducers({
            books: BooksReducer
        });

***Containers***
Def.  A container is a special React component that has direct access to the 'state' produced by Redux.  

Recall that React and Redux are separete libraries.  A third library, React/Redux, is needed to bridge the two.

Created a BookList component and promoted it to a container.

How do we choose which component becomes a container?

    1.  BookList - cares about when the list of books changes
    2.  BookDetail - cares when the active book changes

Only the most parent component that uses a particular piece of 'state' needs  to be connected to Redux.

***Implementation of a Container Class***
Sec. 4, Lec. 42

***React/Redux Recap***

1.  Redux constructs the application state.  React provides the views to display that state.

2.  The two libraries are inherently disconnected.  Use React-Redux to connect the two.

3.  Reducer functions generate the application state.
        ex) reducer_books => always returns an array of books; the array contains a list of objects, with each object having a title property.

4.  Added reducer_books to the combineReducers() call inside reducers/index.js.
This rootReducer creates a key called books whose value is the array from reducer_books.

5.  Created a book-list component.  Since it needed to be aware of state, through the list of books, we promoted this component to a container.

6.  Redux generated a state object that contained our list of books.  We then mapped that state as 'props' to the BookList component.  Because our state was updated, the container rendered into the app.

***Changing State***
We use Actions and Action Creators to change state over time.

Most everything in Redux is triggered by an event, directly or indirectly, by the user.

    a.  Direct Events
            Selecting an item from a dropdown
            Hovering over an element
            Submitting a form

    b.  Indirect Events
            AJAX request finishing
            Page finishing loading

Process
    a.  These events can call an **action creator**.  An action creator is a function that returns an action, which is an object:

            function(return {
                // type of action just triggered
                type: BOOK_SELECTED,
                // additional data that describes action
                book: {title: 'Book 2'}
            })

    b. This action object is automatically sent to all reducers in the application.

    c.  Reducers, depending on the action, will return a different piece of state.

            In reducer, will usually use a switch statement to go to different lines depending on the action:

            switch(action.type) {
                case: BOOK_SELECTED:
                    return action.book
                default:
                    // don't care about this action, so do nothing
                    return current state    
            }

            The returned value will be the new value of state.

    d.  The new state is piped into the application state.

    e.  The application state is then pumped into the React application, causing all the containers to re-render
